*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 66942 ***

                 The Building In Japan

        Published (Collotyped and hand coloured.)

                           by

                       T. TAKAGI,

                 Photographic Studio and
                      Art Gallery.

                   No. 42, Nishimachi,
                      KOBE, JAPAN.




                      INTRODUCTION.


The pictures here depicted, show the whole process of building a
middle class house, from the selection and sawing of timbers until
they are formed into a complete house. The head carpenter conferring
with the owner, plans the form and design of the house.

[Illustration]

The head carpenter first makes a calculation of the quantity of
timber necessary to complete the building and so much timber is
carried to the spot where the house will be built. Here the head
carpenter has to use his talent seriously for choosing the timbers,
appropriate for poles, upper and lower beams, railings and halls,
etc., so that the best pieces of wood are used for the principal
rooms and in the places that attract attention. Thus, he is ordering
the sawyers to saw the timbers in the way he thinks the best.

[Illustration]

Here the men are sharpening the saws for the sawyers, which is a
peculiar occupation belonging to themselves.

[Illustration]

Next, the carpenter shaves the wood that have been cut by the sawyers.

[Illustration]

After the boards are so planed for the different poles, upper and
lower beams, railings etc., they are again to be carefully shaved
with carpenter’s skill before they are put in their proper position.

[Illustration]

The carpenter has to keep his tools very sharp for doing this
skillful work so that he has to sharpen them frequently while he is
working.

[Illustration]

Each carpenter brings his “bento” or “luncheon case” filled with
boiled rice and some other trifles, when he comes to the work place,
in the morning. Here they open the case at tiffin time and enjoy
themselves.

[Illustration]

The stone masons take their parts for the foundation work of the house.

[Illustration]

The incessant work of ten of the carpenters for two months has so
progressed that every pole and railing is properly planed and
skillfully shaped, measured and holed so that each piece fits the
other so as to complete the building or framing of the house. Here
they are making the preparation for the building or framing work.

[Illustration]

The building or framing work should be completed in a whole day. This
is the most important day for the carpenters; for, has there been
even the slightest error in measuring or making holes, the building
work will become impossible.

[Illustration]

The building or framing being almost constructed, they now have to
carry the heaviest head pillars up above by using the pulley.

[Illustration]

After hard labour taken by the carpenters and coolies, employed
specially for the day of building, under an earnest management of the
head carpenter, the building or framing work is completed at sunset.
The celebration poles are made each bearing three fans indicating
type of rising sun, fastened together and decorated with green
leaves, five coloured hemp threads and white paper cut in the way
indicating sacredness. And the carpenters carry them, making a
procession together with the coolies singing songs celebrating the
success. Then they stop first at the gate of the owner of the new
building and leave there, one of the decorations, and the family
gives them a feast and “sake” for the celebration.

[Illustration]

When a temple or a very high class house is built, a solemn ceremony
takes place by Shinto priests. Also, in this ceremony, the chief
carpenters who are attired in Shinto priest’s costume, ceremonially
use the measure and spooled marking ink over the main pole of the
building.

[Illustration]

Now the tile men commence roofing and coolies make walls with bamboo
which shall be plastered afterward, by the plasterer.

[Illustration]

The roofing is nearly completed. The coolies and plasterer are busy
outside and the carpenters are busy with inside works.

[Illustration]

Plastering the wall, over the bamboo. They have to undergo this
process three times.

[Illustration]

Both inside and outside works are nearly finished and the mat-men are
to take their parts trimming the mats so to fit each room. They have
to manage more than 60 “Tatami” or mats for this house.

[Illustration]

The house is done but the whole household are kept busy for sometime,
pasting papers over the “Shoji” (doors of rooms), and many other
little jobs are waiting to be finished before the family may
comfortably enjoy the new house.

[Illustration]

This is one of the best rooms, intentionally made for receiving
guests. Artistic and expensive woods are used for the poles and floor
of the “Tokonoma,” or, place of honour. Chosen woods are used for the
ceiling. Also, much pains is taken for choosing “Shoji” paper doors
for the rooms and “Fusuma” (paper doors between rooms), to make the
room an artistic and refined one.

[Illustration]

The house is completed. It is a fine representation of a
characteristic Japanese house.

[Illustration]

The garden.

[Illustration: Japanese title page at end of book]

  不許複製

  大正二年十一月十五日印刷
  大正二年十一月廿五日發行

  兵庫縣神戸市西町四十二番舘
  著作兼發行者
  高木庭次郎

  兵庫縣神戸市西町四十二番舘
  發行所
  高木寫眞舘本店

  兵庫縣神戸市西町四十二番舘
  印刷所
  高木寫眞製版部




Transcriber’s Notes:


  1. This book was published in Taisho year 2 November 25
     (i.e. 25 November 1913)

  2. English title page moved to the front of the book.

  3. Comma, semicolon, and other punctuation usages have been
     preserved.

  Change List:

    Introduction
    “a middle class houses”
    changed to
    “a middle class house”

    Introduction
    “confering”
    changed to
    “conferring”

    1st, 2nd and 3rd image texts
    “sawers”
    changed to
    “sawyers”

    12th image text
    “custume”
    changed to
    “costume”

    16th image text
    “fit each room. they have to”
    changed to
    “fit each room. They have to”

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 66942 ***
